how-to: add check-before-deployment.md (#2656)
pingcap/docs: check-before-deployment.md

        ```

    - The following situation indicates the NTP service is not synchronizing normally:

        ```
        unsynchronised
        ```

    - The following situation indicates the NTP service is not running normally:

        ```
        Unable to talk to NTP daemon. Is it running?
        ```

To make the NTP service start synchronizing as soon as possible, run the following command. Replace `pool.ntp.org` with your NTP server.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
sudo systemctl stop ntpd.service && \
sudo ntpdate pool.ntp.org && \
sudo systemctl start ntpd.service
```

To install the NTP service manually on the CentOS 7 system, run the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
sudo yum install ntp ntpdate && \
sudo systemctl start ntpd.service && \
sudo systemctl enable ntpd.service
```

## Manually configure the SSH mutual trust and sudo without password

This section describes how to manually configure the SSH mutual trust and sudo without password. It is recommended to use TiUP for deployment, which automatically configure SSH mutual trust and login without password. If you deploy TiDB clusters using TiUP, ignore this section.

> 1. Log in to the Target Machine respectively using the `root` user account, create the `tidb` user and set the login password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the target machine respectively using the `root` user account, create the `tidb` user and set the login password.
```
s/Target Machine/target machine in batch @ran-huang

Author: @yikeke Personally I think either uppercase or lowercase is okay. Now we use mostly `Control Machine` and `target machine` in our docs. Better unify them.

Reviewer: We take the lowercase form then. Can you help unify the terms across our docs in this PR?

Author: Sure.

    {{< copyable "shell-root" >}}

    ```bash
    useradd tidb && \
    passwd tidb
    ```

2. To configure sudo without password, run the following command, and add `tidb ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL` to the end of the file:

    {{< copyable "shell-root" >}}

    ```bash
    visudo
    ```

    ```
    tidb ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
    ```

3. Use the `tidb` user to log in to the Control Machine, and run the following command. Replace `10.0.1.1` with the IP of your Target Machine, and enter the `tidb` user password of the Target Machine as prompted. After the command is executed, SSH mutual trust is already created. This applies to other machines as well.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub 10.0.1.1
    ```

4. Log in to the Control Machine using the `tidb` user account, and log in to the IP of the Target Machine using `ssh`. If you do not need to enter the password and can successfully log in, then the SSH mutual trust is successfully configured.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    ssh 10.0.1.1
    ```

    ```
    [tidb@10.0.1.1 ~]$
    ```

> 5. After you login to the Target Machine using the `tidb` user, run the following command. If you do not need to enter the password and can switch to the `root` user, then sudo without password of the `tidb` user is successfully configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After you log in to the Target Machine using the `tidb` user, run the following command. If you do not need to enter the password and can switch to the `root` user, then sudo without password of the `tidb` user is successfully configured.
```

1. Check the firewall status. Take CentOS Linux release 7.7.1908 (Core) as an example.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    sudo firewall-cmd --state
    sudo systemctl status firewalld.service
    ```

2. Stop the firewall service.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    sudo systemctl stop firewalld.service
    ```

3. Disable automatic start of the firewall service.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    sudo systemctl disable firewalld.service
    ```

4. Check the firewall status.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    sudo systemctl status firewalld.service
    ```

> ## Check and install the NTP service

Reviewer: Please align this [commit](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/3457/commits/725de1d56ae3e0081c3b51d8b68cd28380912700). @ran-huang

Author: Updated.

---
title: TiDB Environment and System Configuration Check
summary: Learn the environment check operations before deploying TiDB.
category: how-to
---

# TiDB Environment and System Configuration Check

This document describes the environment check operations before deploying TiDB. The following steps are sequenced in order of priorities.

## Mount the data disk ext4 filesystem with options on the target machines that deploy TiKV

For production environment deployments, it is recommended to use NVMe SSD of EXT4 filesystem to store TiKV data. This configuration is the best practice, whose reliability, security, and stability have been proven in a large number of online scenarios.

> **Note:**
>

> > It is recommended to use the EXT4 file system format for the data directory of the target machines that deploy TiKV. Compared with the XFS file system format, we support more deployment cases that use the EXT4 file system format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It is recommended to use the EXT4 filesystem format for the data directory of the target machines that deploy TiKV. Compared with the XFS filesystem format, we support more deployment cases that use the EXT4 filesystem format.
```
Batch replace `file system` with `filesystem`, please.

    ```

6. Mount the data disk.

    {{< copyable "shell-root" >}}

    ```bash
    mkdir /data1 && \
    mount -a
    ```

7. Check using the following command.

    {{< copyable "shell-root" >}}

    ```bash
    mount -t ext4
    ```

    ```
    /dev/nvme0n1p1 on /data1 type ext4 (rw,noatime,nodelalloc,data=ordered)
    ```

    If the filesystem is ext4 and `nodelalloc` is included in the mount options, you have successfully mount the data disk ext4 filesystem with options on the target machines.

## Check and disable system swap

This section describes how to disable swap.

TiDB requires sufficient memory space for operation. It is not recommended to use swap as a buffer for insufficient memory, which might reduce performance. Therefore, it is recommended to disable the system swap permanently.

Do not disable the system swap by executing `swapoff -a`, or this setting will be invalid after the machine is restarted.

To disable the system swap, execute the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
echo "vm.swappiness = 0">> /etc/sysctl.conf 
swapoff -a && swapon -a
sysctl -p
```

> ## Check and stop the firewall service of deployment machines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Check and stop the firewall service of target machines
```
In docs-cn repo, @kissmydb once suggested that we unify the terms and use "中控机" and "目标机器"  (instead of "部署机"). So in docs repo, I suggest we use "Control Machine" and "Target Machine" (instead of "deployment machine") across our documents. @ran-huang Please update all places that apply to this suggestion.

Author: Updated.

This section describes how to stop the firewall service of deployment machines.

In TiDB clusters, the access ports between nodes must be open to ensure the normal transmission of information such as read and write requests and data heartbeat. In common online scenarios, the data interaction between the database and the application service and between the database nodes are all made within a secure network. Therefore, if there are no special security requirements, it is recommended to stop the firewall of the target node. Otherwise, refer to [the port usage](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#network-requirements) and add the related port information to the whitelist of the firewall service.

> 

Author: @yikeke This sentence repeats L133?
